>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
let's talk about our solution here,
compare it also to our pseudocode,
which I have at the bottom.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay?
So, here we are, first line,
we are checking if
the current value equals
the value that's passed in.
Okay.
Next thing we're saying,
if our passing value is less than
the current value, what do we wanna do?
Without looking at the code,
what do we wanna do?
>> Speaker 2: Go left.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We wanna go left.
Cool.
And here we are going left.
We're catching this here with a double
bang to stop it, if there is no left.
So double bang, this is forcing
it to a boolean true/false,
so if this dot left is null,
it's going to return false, which means
that is not going to,
go to the second side of end operator.
So the logic behind the end operator,
is that they both have to return true,
in order for it to return true.
Either one is false It's gonna
return false, right, and operator.
Except the way that it actually
works is if the first one is false,
it doesn't even go to run the second side.
And so we use the and
operator in this way as sort of a gate.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, and we also use
the OR operator as sort of a default.
We did that previously where
We say if something is
undefined you say or
the default with the or operator.
So that's just another one of those.
Cool.
Returning out from our
aversion as well cool,
then if the value is greater than
the current value, same thing.
If it doesn't exist, we'll return false.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Or,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Return
whatever this returns, right.
If it,
maybe it's true somewhere under there.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool?
Then if we go through all that business,
>> Speaker 3: It's unreachable, isn't it?
>> Speaker 4: Isn't unreachable
>> Bianca Gandolfo: [CROSSTALK] Probably,
let's see.
>> Speaker 4: That's how mine is and
it works.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It works?
>> Speaker 3: I guess it could be
a double equals, but not triple equals.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Hm?
>> Speaker 3: I guess it could be
double equals, but not triple equals.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: For the second line?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What do you mean?
>> Speaker 2: He's saying you have to
go into one of those two if conditions,
either the equals, less than or
greater than are all covered.
So there shouldn't be any way
to get down to the false.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Right.
But he's saying if
line 2 could technically be false if
it was double equals, but not triple.
>> Speaker 2: So is it?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah that's what I thought.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Well
we would hope not.
But maybe this will just
catch the cases in which
we don't enter into any
of those conditions.
Which means it's not equal, it's not
less than, and it's not greater than.
>> Speaker 4: Why didn't you, when you
had the value less Then this value
have the check to see if this
dot left existed right in there.
Instead of having the and
return contains value.
So, like, at the end of value
less than this value, and
then have your And this.left.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
you could do that.
But this will also return false for
us if we want.
>> Speaker 4: But then that way I
only have the one return the false.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep,
yeah, that makes sense.
Yeah.
So if you didn't have this return here,
and
you just checked here,
then this would be more useful for us.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
Questions?
>> Speaker 4: Yep,
a question online from Oscar.
Why do you use Not this.right
instead of just this.right.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So the double
bang is forced to a boolean, and
it's just to be sure that it
gets forced to a boolean.
>> Speaker 5: Will it return undefined?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
it might return undefined.
Which is okay, but
they're just weird with JavaScript and
the truthy and the falsy situation is
a little bit fuzzy when we force it.
It's just more of a double-check
more than anything.
It'll probably work just fine without it.
But there's a chance that something
weird could happen, so double bang.
So this would make it opposite, so
if this was true this would make it false,
the double bang.
If it's true it makes it true, yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: This is again,
just a general JavaScript question, but
if you just did return this.left,
it would actually return the object or
whatever, right?
Is it the and that makes it?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: If you just did return
this.left, and you didn't have the and
this.left contains value,
it would just return the object, right?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
you're saying if we didn't have this.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, or the double bang.
Yeah that would-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah we return
the object.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah you don't want it to
return null, you want it to return false,
I think that's the point.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah so for
most cases it will even if it is null,
null evaluates to false usually.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: The valuation
falls but it's not, yeah.
Okay.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
Those are just little details not the most
important thing.
So what do we think?
Does it makes sense?
Cool, anyone do it differently?
>> Speaker 2: More or less the same, cool.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I omitted the first
line, this.value = false, and
I returned true at the end.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, so
you just flipped it, cool.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: They're
about the same.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
>> Speaker 2: Any a-ha moments yet?
Still digesting both the food and
also contains.
That stomach contains Thai food.
Yum.
Alright, so
let's check out what we have to do.
Here, insert.
We haven't looked at this yet, right?
Let's check it out.
I'm going to put it in here so
we have the pretty colors.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: One question
before we move on, from Oscar.
Is the time complexity O log n?
>> Speaker 2: In the average/best case,
yes.
Worst case, no.
>> Speaker 2: Good question, though.
Cool, so insert we went through
the pseudocode a moment ago, but
let's just look at the real code.
So if the value is less than or
equal to the current value,
and there is a left,
then you want to insert
on the current left.
Yeah?
The regressive call.
Otherwise, you're gonna set it, right.
If there's nothing there you're going to
put a new node in the current nodes left.
The other condition is if it's greater and
there is a right.
Then, you're gonna recurse
to the current node's right.
>> Speaker 2: Otherwise, if there's no
right, then that's where we want to be.
>> Speaker 2: And then, we call it a day,
and we want to just return out at the end.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
that's returning the pair end, right?
>> Speaker 2: Mm-hm.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay.
I understood it differently.
>> Speaker 2: Well, it depends on where
you are in the recursive call, right?
But at the end,
it's going to return the entire tree.
It's gonna return a reference to it.
Because that's what this
is at the very beginning.
>> Speaker 2: But as you do these
recursive calls You're changing the value
of this.
>> Speaker 2: So depending on when you
land here, this could be different.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: But
you aren't returning the recursive calls,
you're only returning the top.
>> Speaker 2: No but just imagine
a world where you did a recursive call,
you didn't get into any of this,
this got skipped.
>> Speaker 2: That's where
the return would pop up.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So will the
BinarySearchTree being returned always be
the one that you called insert on,
or will it be one of the subtrees?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, the very last one
is definitely gonna be the top one to
the route, whatever it started with
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
that's what you would
get as a return value?
>> Speaker 2: So with this implementation,
you could chain multiple inserts.
So you could say my BST dot
insert three dot insert
five dot insert 132, or whatever.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I was
returning the SubTree and
I didn't get the use case for it.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
Yeah, for the most part, you're only going
to be interested in this at the end.
Yeah.
But it's going to return.
>> Speaker 2: Every time you call
the function, it's going to return but
it's going to get kind of
caught up in your recursion.
It's going to get stuck in
there until the very last call